Backend application.

The tricky file system layout comes from the way the module system works for Node.js and a will not to mix application modules and third-party modules.

# File system layout

* `README.md`: this current file
* `.gitignore`: Git related file
* `node_modules`: all third-party libraries used by the application.

## `app`

Applications files.

The application follows a modular architecture, and all the module are hierarchically organized into this root folder.

Under this root, there are _pseudo-standard_ modules and modules of the application: this is described in the respective documentation.

A _pseudo-standard_ module is a module that is not installed through the package management system (_npm_ here) since it is _home-made_. However this is a module that is not specific to this application, it could be re-used in many other ones.

## Package

* `package.json.ls`: LiveScript equivalent of npm `package.json`
* `compile.bat`: generates `package.json` from `package.json.ls`
* `package.json`: generated by `compile.bat`

# Versioning

To version:

* `README.md`
* `.gitignore`
* `package.json.ls`
* `app`

Optional:

* `compile.bat`: convenient script only

To ignore:

* `package.json`: generated from `package.json.ls`
* `node_modules`: can be installed from the `package.json` data with the use of npm

# Contribute

## Setup

### Pre-requisites

* Node.js
* npm
* LiveScript

### Process

1. Generate `package.json` from `package.json.ls`
	* if the `compile.bat` script is present and the LiveScript program is globally available (put in the `PATH` environement variable), launch the former
	* otherwise launch the LiveScript program with the following arguments: `-cj package.json.ls`
1. Install the node modules
	* launch the _npm_ program with the argument `install` and with the _current working directory_ set to the folder containing the previously generated `package.json`

## Development

### Package definition

You can update the package by modifying the content of the `package.json.ls` file.

For that, you must know a bit the LiveScript language, and you'll need to know the _npm_ `package.json` specifications.

### Application code

Please refer to the content of the `app` folder.

# References

* [LiveScript](http://livescript.net/)
* [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/)
* [npm](https://npmjs.org/)
	* [`package.json`](https://npmjs.org/doc/json.html)

# TODO

* Check the package definition, notably for required modules
